This is a LyX development release
---------------------------------

The LyX Team has adopted a new development model and
tries to keep the development version stable as far
as possible, but since the program is changing, the
development version will be less stable than the
stable releases.

So, don't use this development version on your production
documents without testing everything in depth first.


What is LyX?

	LyX is an advanced open-source "document processor". Unlike
	standard word processors, LyX encourages writing based on the
	structure of your documents, not their appearance. It lets you
	concentrate on writing, leaving details of visual layout to the
	software.

	You can read more about this concept in the documentation,
	which you'll find under the Help menu.  If you plan to use LyX, 
	you really should read about it to be able to make the best of 
	it.

What is LyX not?

	LyX is not just another word processor that claims to be a
	Desktop Publishing program.  It's a more modern way of
	creating documents that look much nicer, but without wasting 
	time with layout-fiddling.  For these reasons you might need 
	little time to get used to the differences.
	If you are looking for a free Desktop Publishing program for
	Unix, you will be disappointed.

What do I need to run LyX?

	A Unix-like system or OS/2 with XFree
	At least X11 Release 5
	A decent LaTeX2e installation (e.g. teTeX or NTeX) not older
	   than 1995/12/01
	Optionally ghostscript and ghostview (or compatible)
	Perl5.002 or later to import LaTeX files into LyX

What's new?

	Read NEWS.

How do I install a binary distribution of LyX?

	Unpack it and run it.  We recommend unpacking it in /usr/local,
	but it should work anywhere.  In particular, you can try LyX
	in a temporary directory before installing permanently by
	typing "bin/lyx".

	We recommend that you configure LyX system-wide by copying the
        file share/lyx/lyxrc.example to share/lyx/lyxrc, and then
	reading and modifying it.

	You should read the notes regarding this particular build in
	the file README.bin.

How do I upgrade from an earlier LyX version?

	Read the file UPGRADING for info on this subject.
	If you are upgrading from version 0.12.0 or later, you don't 
	need to do anything special.

What do I need to compile LyX from the source distribution?

	1. A good c++ compiler.  Development is being done mainly on
	   gcc/g++, but many others work.
	2. The Xforms library version 0.81, 0.86 or 0.88.
	3. LibXpm version 4.7 (or newer).

	Read the file "INSTALL" for more information on compiling.

Okay, I've installed LyX. What now?

	Once you've installed it, and everything looks fine, go read
	the "Introduction" item under the Help menu.  You should follow
	the instructions there, which tell you to read (or at least skim)
	the Tutorial. After that, you should also read "Help/LaTeX
	configuration" which provides info on your LaTeX configuration
	as LyX sees it.  You might be missing a package or two that you'd
	like to have.

	User-level configuration is possible with a file "~/.lyx/lyxrc".
	You can use the system-wide lyxrc file (which should be somewhere
	like /usr/local/share/lyx/lyxrc) as a template for your personal
	lyxrc file.  Remember that a personal configuration file will be
	used instead of, not in addition to, any system-wide file.

Does LyX have support for non-English speakers/writers/readers?

	Yes. LyX supports writing in many languages.

	Menus and error messages have been translated to the following
	languages (* means there are language-specific keyboard menu
	bindings as well):

	Catalan     (ca)
	Czech       (cs)
	Danish      (da)
	German      (de)    *
	Spanish     (es)
	Finnish     (fi)
	French      (fr)    *
	Hungarian   (hu)    *
	Italian     (it)
	Dutch       (nl)
	Norwegian   (no)
	Polish      (pl)
	Portuguese  (pt)    *
	Russian     (ru)
	Slovenian   (sl)
	Swedish     (sv)    *
	Turkish     (tr)
	Walloon	    (wa)

	Keymaps can ease typing in one or more of the following languages:

	Czech
	French, Swiss French
	German, Swiss German
	Greek
	Hungarian (Magyar)
	Polish
	Portugese
	Romanian
	Slovenian
	Turkish

Internet resources of relevance to LyX

	The LyX homepage contains valuable information about LyX and the
	various LyX mailing lists, as well as links to mirrors and other
	LyX homepages around the world:
	http://www.lyx.org/

	Main LyX archive site:
	ftp://ftp.lyx.org/pub/lyx/

	The LyX Development page has information about the development
	effort. LyX is now under CVS control, so you can get the very
	latest sources from there at any time.
	http://www.devel.lyx.org/
	ftp://www.devel.lyx.org/pub/lyx/

What is the numbering scheme for releases? Is it like the Linux kernel?

	Yes, it's like the Linux kernel since LyX version 0.8:

		0.10.x, 0.12.x, 1.0.x    ... are stable, public releases
		0.11.x, 0.13.x, 1.1.x    ... are developer releases

	Of course you may also use the developer releases, but only
	at your own risk. This is definitely higher than your risk when 
	using the public releases, even if this is your own risk, too.

How do I submit a bug report?

	If possible, read the "Known Bugs" document found under the
	Help menu.  You'll find detailed info on submitting bug reports
	there.

	You should also check the BUGS file in this directory.

	If you can't do that, send details to the LyX Developers mailing
	list.  Don't forget to mention which version you are having
	problems with!

How do I prepare a binary distribution for the use of others?

	1) Compile LyX with the right compiler switches for your
	architecture. In particular you might want to ensure that libraries
	like xforms and xpm are statically linked. To this end, you
	can use a command like

		make LYX_LIBS='/foo/libforms.a /bar/libXpm.a'

	Moreover, make sure you use the --without-latex-config switch
	of configure, since others might not be interested by your
	configuration :-) 

	2) Create a file README.bin describing your distribution and
	referring to *you* if problems arise. As a model, you can use the 
	file development/tools/README.bin.example which was originally
	written for Linux by David L. Johnson. Do *not* use directly
	the file in the distribution, since it refers to Linux and
	points to David L. Johnson for help. However, it can be a good
	starting point. Note that removing the file completely is
	better than not	editing it at all.

	3) Type `make bindist'. This will create a file
	lyx-1.xx.yy-bin.tar.gz. Rename it to reflect you architecture 
	and the peculiarities of your build (e.g. static vs. dynamic).

	4) Check that everything is correct by unpacking the distribution 
	in some private place and running it. In particular, check the 
	output of `ldd lyx' to know which libraries are really needed.

	5) Upload your binary file to ftp.lyx.org:/pub/lyx/uploads.

How can I participate in the development of LyX? 

	Any help with the development of LyX is greatly appreciated--
	after all LyX wouldn't be what it is today without the help
	of volunteers. We need your help!

	If you want to work on LyX, you should contact the developer's 
	mailing list for discussion on how to do your stuff.  LyX is being 
	cleaned up, and therefore it's important to follow some rules. 
	Read about those rules in development/Code_rules/.

	If you don't know C++, there are many other ways to contribute.
	Write documentation. Help to internationalize LyX by translating
	documentation or menus/error messages, or by writing a new keymap.
	Write a new textclass.  Work on reLyX (Perl). Find bugs (but please
	read the list of known bugs first). Contribute money. Or just offer
	feature suggestions (but please read the online TODO list first).  

Thank you for trying LyX, and we appreciate your feedback in the mailing
lists.

The LyX Team.
