This file lists interface changes that might affect users in
1.4.0, and also some bug fixes.

Internal changes
----------------

Add change tracking.

Replace the home-grown RowList code with std::list<Row>.

Load graphics images in a more asynchronous manner.

Load graphics images in a serial fashion rather than (possibly) swamping the
machine with multiple conversion processes executing in parallel.

Remove much of the hard-coding of bibitem insets from the paragraph code.

Add a localDispatch method to many more inset classes and use it. An important
step in the clean-up of the current inset code and towards inset-unification.

Add a real Label dialog rather than that nasty Alert thingy.

Add a Hfill inset.

Clean-up the use of Alert to make the dialogs far more descriptive.

Rewrite entirely the interface between LyX and its dialogs. Multiple showXYZ()
methods replaced with a single show(<name>). Attempt to create new LFUNs
so that the frontend dialogs do not actually change anything in the LyX core.
Instead they dispatch these LFUNs back to the core for consideration by it.

As a side effect of the above, redesign the implementation of the Model-
Controller-View implementation of the dialogs to make it transparent.

(xforms): replace the Combox code with a native xforms widget, for eventual
inclusion in the xforms library itself.

File format changes
-------------------

Add \end_header.

Interface changes
-----------------

Some of the LyX functions have changed names :

tab-insert -> cell-split
tab-backward -> cell-backward
tab-forward -> cell-forward

Additionally, tab-forward (bound to the "Tab" key normally) no
longer has any effect in normal text.

bibkey-insert -> bibitem-insert

bibtex-insert -> dialog-show-new-inset bibtex
citation-insert -> dialog-show-new-inset citation
external-insert -> dialog-show-new-inset external
graphics-insert -> dialog-show-new-inset graphics
buffer-child-insert -> dialog-show-new-inset include
reference-insert -> dialog-show-new-inset ref

It is now possible to run LyX without a Toolbar if so desired.

ReLyX changes
-------------

Add support for 'm' column descriptors.

Pass almost all math through reLyX unchanged.

Add support for natbib citations.

Add support for minipages.

When reLyX creates a LyX file, the header now records this.

Add support for generic LaTeX lengths.

Layouts
-------

Add classes mwart, mwbk, mwrep conforming to polish typographical conventions.

Add elsart class.

Update KOME classes.

Bug fixes
---------

Fix detection of fax programs.

Fix the tgif converters.

lyx2lyx now handles development version files.
