!Important Changes in LyX 2.2.0

(: This file lists interface changes that might affect users in 2.2.0, some
   known problems in LyX 2.2.0 and some things you have to take into account
   when upgrading from earlier versions to a version of the 2.2.x series. :)


!!Interface changes

* The --Separator-- layout has been removed in favor of an environment
  separator inset. There is no provision for inserting this inset from
  the GUI (though some menu entries use it) as it is automatically inserted
  when needed. See Section 3.4.6 of the User Guide for details.

* The prefix for subsections in labels and references has been changed from
  "sub:" to "subsec:" in order to avoid a clash with subfloats (conflicting
  \subref command, see bug #7550). Files are automatically converted to the new scheme.
  Please assure that you adapt external refstyle or prettyref definitions and
  your own layout files.

!!!The following pref variables were added in 2.2:

* \save_origin:
  This variable was introduced to allow saving the document directory
  path in the document. If allowed, LyX will be able to locate all
  included files even when the document is manually moved/copied to
  a different location. If a valid \origin tag is present and the
  document was actually moved, the path of all included files is
  updated relative to the new location and the new origin will be
  recorded when saving again the document.

!!!The following pref variables were changed in 2.2:



!!!The following pref variables are obsoleted in 2.2:

* \rtl:
  This variable was introduced to guard against any bad consequence of
  the then-new right-to-left languages support. It is no longer needed
  because of improvements. Now right-to-left support is always enabled.


!!!The following new LyX functions have been introduced in 2.2:

* buffer-view-cache:
  Opens the last previewed output of the buffer, if it exists.

* buffer-move-next:
  Moves the current tab one spot to the right.

* buffer-move-previous:
  Moves the current tab one spot to the left.


!!!The following LyX functions have been changed in 2.2:



!!!The following LyX key bindings have been changed in 2.2:

* For bindings where Control + {PgDn, PgUp} switches to the
  {next, previous} tab, Control + Shift + {PgDn, PgUp} moves the current
  tab to the {next, previous} tab.


!!!The following LyX documents have been moved in 2.2:



!!!The following metadata files have been added to the tarball in 2.2:



!!Changes with respect to external programs and libraries in 2.2:

* LyX is not yet supposed to work with Qt5. It is advised to compile and
  run LyX against Qt 4.8.x. On Windows Qt 4.8.6 or newer is advised.

* LyX now gives an error if the underlying LaTeX command exited with error.


!!Known issues in version 2.2.0

* LyX needs to be run under Python 2 and will not work properly on systems
  where Python 3 is the default binary. See bug #7030 to know how to fix
  this properly, since simple sheebang conversion in *.py files will not
  be enough.


!!Caveats when upgrading from earlier versions to 2.2.x

* BibTeX errors are now processed and cause LyX to show the errors dialog.
  Before, these errors were ignored, which means that it may happen that
  documents that compiled without error with a previous version now
  compile with error. However, because now in 2.2.x users can click on
  the "Show Output Anyway" button, the document can still be viewed.

